README.md, before:

# **beast** - **be**nchmark **a**nalysis and **s**ummary **t**ool

![ci](https://github.com/bjob/beast/workflows/ci-chain/badge.svg) ![ci](https://github.com/bjob/beast/workflows/cd-chain/badge.svg) ![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/bjob/beast.svg?style=flat)

``beast`` is a simple tool to execute and post-process a set of google benchmarks. The basic feature is plotting multiple benchmark results in one single plot (powered by `plotly`). It is also possible to configure access to a mongodb database and push results to it.

## **Installation**

Download the latest release from:

[![Download beast](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json.svg?label=download&url=https://api.github.com/repos/bjob/beast/releases/latest&query=$.assets[0].name&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/bjob/beast/releases/latest)

and install the ``.deb`` package via ``sudo dpkg -i``.

## **Usage example**

``beast`` will search for executables with a predefined regular expression pattern in your current working directory as a default. Check ``beast --help`` for an overview about possible options. We will use the C++ example from the repo directory to show the basic functionality (of course you will need to clone the repo for that):

``cd`` to the ``example_benchmark`` directory and call:

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --target all
```

you will get some small benchmark executables which can be plotted with ``beast``:

![beast_on_examples](doc/beast_on_examples.gif)

Commit message:

Include some notes for database setup in README

README.md, after:

# **beast** - **be**nchmark **a**nalysis and **s**ummary **t**ool

![ci](https://github.com/bjob/beast/workflows/ci-chain/badge.svg) ![ci](https://github.com/bjob/beast/workflows/cd-chain/badge.svg) ![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/bjob/beast.svg?style=flat)

``beast`` is a simple tool to execute and post-process a set of google benchmarks. The basic feature is plotting multiple benchmark results in one single plot (powered by `plotly`). It is also possible to configure access to a ``mongoDB`` database and push results to it.

## **Installation**

Download the latest release from:

[![Download beast](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/json.svg?label=download&url=https://api.github.com/repos/bjob/beast/releases/latest&query=$.assets[0].name&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/bjob/beast/releases/latest)

and install the ``.deb`` package via ``sudo dpkg -i``.

## **Basic Usage Example**

``beast`` will search for executables with a predefined regular expression pattern in your current working directory as a default. Check ``beast --help`` for an overview about possible options. We will use the C++ example from the repo directory to show the basic functionality (of course you will need to clone the repo for that):

``cd`` to the ``example_benchmark`` directory and call:

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --target all
```

you will get some small benchmark executables which can be plotted with ``beast``:

![beast_on_examples](doc/beast_on_examples.gif)

## **Database Setup**

If you want to use ``beast``'s database related functionality, you need to set up a ``mongoDB`` database, either by installing the Community Edition from [https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-community/) in your desired environment or by using the cloud based solution [https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas).

Assuming a successful database setup, the only thing which is left to be done is a little configuration via ``beast config``. Set the ``mongoDB``-URI, the database name and the collection name with the according ``--set...`` commands. Note: The collection does not have to be existent, it will created with the first push to it.

Finally you should be able to push your most recent generated benchmark results via ``beast dbpush`` or to retrieve and plot previous pushed data with the ``beast dbplot`` command:

![beast_on_examples](doc/example_time_series.png)
